---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Jan Schaumann
title: "We're Doing it Wrong! - What DevOps needs to learn from traditional, segregated Dev and Ops teams in order to scale up"
---

**Abstract:**

It is commonly accepted gospel amongst the DevOpsDays target audience
that software developers and operational staff need to not only work
closer together, but share each other's duties and burdens.  But it
seems that very large sites are slow to adopt this model.  Is this a
behemoth's inherent inability to adapt quickly?  Or does DevOps perhaps
not scale well?

The truth lies in the middle (shocking, I know).  There are still a few
things that current DevOps practices or culture changes cannot address.
A lot of current DevOps techniques and practices are based on a number
of common open source tools, but in very large environments, these tend
not to scale well; as a result, companies on that end of the spectrum
have been building their own software for a long time.  Perhaps they
have been more "DevOps" than either we or they care to admit?

In this talk, I'd like to take a look at what prevents very large scale
deployments to fall into the, I suppose, "traditional DevOps" model (and
discuss whether such a thing exists).  Lessons we may need to (re)learn
include: automation is a means, not an end, it requires safeguards and
accountability, audit trails and, in many cases, a human decision;
logging all the things is only helpful if all the things can be
processed, otherwise we drown in a sea of data; removing barriers
between roles flattens the trust hierarchy, raising each user's impact
(and ability to cause harm, intentionally or not).

**Speaker:**
Jan Schaumann
