---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Matt Barlow
title: "The Incredible Journey: Measuring Performance Along the Entire Stack"
---

**Abstract**

During the 8 hours we spend every day in front of a computer, the
greatest pain we are likely to endure comes from stress induced by
application latency.

Everyone hates latency, but what are the causes? During this
presentation we will take the Incredible Journey along the entire stack
from user request to final response.

We will begin with time-to-first-byte, discussing DNS, CDNs, TCP and SSL
handshakes.

Next we will discuss HTTP multithreading and header compression with mod
SPDY, automated benchmarking to test config changes scientifically, and
do a deep dive on the open source tool WebPageTest.

Then we will blow up requests within the application, looking at time
spent inside the view, time in the cache, and time in the DB. We will
overlay SELECTS, INSERTS, UPDATES, and DELETES in a graph and even drill
down to time spent waiting for CPU vs. time spent waiting on disk.

Lastly we will take a peak at OS internals. Process stacks in userland
that are working on our request, and the sys calls they make on the
kernel.

When finished, attendees will know which open source tools will measure
utilization and bottlenecks from front end to back. The deck will also
be hosted online with links to further resources, including all code on
GitHub that is used in the presentation.

**Speaker**

Matt Barlow is a member of a team at Rackspace that automates customer
applications using Chef, and monitors performance with tools such as
StatsD and Graphite. He began his career as a Linux Sys Admin in 2000
and has been working in the Linux Hosting industry ever since. His most
memorable Ops experience was automating the emergency kernel upgrade and
reboot of over 10,000 physical Linux servers. In 2014, Matt presented at
ChefConf and DevOpsDays in Austin and published a YouTube channel for
Sys Admins learning to work on DevOps teams.
