---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Jan Schaumann
title: "Mommy, Dev and Ops won't let me play with them! -- Sec, the nerdy outsider of the nerds club, just wants to belong"
---

**Abstract:**

Alright, so Dev and Ops are now getting along just dandy.  Walls have
been torn down, hierarchies flattened and the two best buddies are
playing together all day long.  All the things are automated, all the
things are logged, all the things are deployed and humans lean back and
direct the symphony from afar.  But as we have build infrastructures
that get software updates applied via continuous integration processes,
which themselves automatically build new snapshots of software from the
repository, test them and then push the code into production; as we
trigger actions via bots, via commit messages, via emails; as we analyze
data that is relayed from host to host, from automated software to
automated software and have Skynet react to data patterns; as all this
happens, how do we know we have not been compromised, hacked, pwned?

A lot of the software built to automate deployments, to open, update,
and close tickets is nowadays driven by other software; QA, development
and production environments, if separate, have "special" access rules
for this deployment software, and privileged accounts are de rigueur for
all of this magic to work.

In this talk, I'd like to discuss the security implications of some of
the design and architecture decisions our community made in our efforts
to bring developers and operations closer together and I'd like to
propose ways in which the wall to the Security team(s) of your
organization can be broken down as well.  I'll also include the N most
common yet dangerous mistakes when building automation frameworks that
allow me to pwn your dev, prod and extra-supah-sekret networks


**Speaker:**
Jan Schaumann
