---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Sarah Haselbauer
title: "Building an infrastructure to support continuous delivery"
---

**Abstract:**



Build tools such as Maven, Ant and Gradle are now commonplace. This is 
an important step towards optimization of software development and 
delivery processes, so this talk will of course include a description of 
the code's journey from the developer's machine to the running system, 
and all the steps taken and tools encountered along the way. However, 
this is only half the story: besides the transformations the code 
undergoes throughout the software engineering process, the 
infrastructure must also go through something similar. While the code 
journey has become quite transparent, there is still a lot of silence on 
the subject of infrastructure. When it comes to target environment 
setup, there is often no versioning, no revision to a fallback state, no 
tests and no documentation on how the target environment can reach the 
state in which the main piece of delivery, namely the software, can be 
successfully deployed and used.

Along with software engineering processes, this talk describes the 
advantages, risks and possibilities of an automated infrastructure 
setup. It offers options on how versioning and testing of an automated 
infrastructure setup may be realized and integrated in the software 
engineering process. And of course, topics such as build tools, bug 
tracking, authentication, artifact repositories, continuous integration 
and continuous deployment are addressed.

**Speaker:**
Sara Haselbauer
