---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Jan Schaumann
title: "Beware the echo chamber chamber chamber -- Of conferences and filter bubbles"
---

**Abstract:**
Conferences tend to follow and reinforce a certain degree of homophily:
we attend the conferences that cover the areas we work in and hear
speakers talk about topics that we believe are relevant to our current
interests.  Most of the time we seek out validation of our own ideas,
and so it is not surprising that most conferences have a very homogenous
program.  Within each community, we cater to the masses.

This reinforces each attendant's feeling that they get their money's
worth out of a conference: if you know before attending that you will
agree with everything (or at least the majority) that's said, then you
later on are likely to rate the conference a smashing success.  Which in
turn leads to the conference organizers receiving lots of great
feedback, patting their program committee on the back and planning an
identical (but bigger!) conference the next year.

But this is not how we expand our horizons, how we learn new things.
New ways of doing the old thing is not nearly as exciting or valuable as
learning something actually new.  It is rare to see a conference invite
speakers presenting the exact opposing thought than the one that might
underly the conference's theme.

The idea of DevOps is actually a pretty good example.  If I understand
its history, it was, effectively, born out of a serendipitous meeting at
a conference that did not focus on 'Ops' at all.  The idea of agile
system administration was not something that would have likely been
accepted as a pitch for a software development conference.  But we are
now running the risk of building our own echo chamber: if you look at
the program for DevOpsDays Italy, it sure looks like every talk will be
very exciting and interesting for all attendants, and I'm sure they will
all like them very much and agree with the main points.

Don't we deserve a little more intellectual honesty?  Don't we deserve
*new* ideas, not just slightly improved old ideas?  And don't we all
tend to learn the most, the most interesting things when we're forced to
look at something from an opposing view point?  I would argue that every
conference should strive to invite more than just one or two of its
"opponents", the people who are on the opposite side of the spectrum.

What makes you uncomfortable?  NoOps?  Traditional separation between
dev and ops?  Outsourcing of ops?  Let's invite the experts on those
topics to the next DevOpsDays!

**Speaker:**
Jan Schaumann
